---
layout: entry
title: "February 2021"
date: 2021-02-06
---
<h2> 13/02/2021 Entry Three </h2>
<p> As I thought, and warned at the outset of this project, my graduate diploma and social life are taking close to all my time during the week, leaving me with little time to build this site. I suspect I'll generally only have Saturdays to contribute here. I do have a lot to say about my social activities, however.</p>
<p> My friends and I started an indoor  beach volleyball team in December of last year. That's been a whole lot of fun, and since then we've been playing three nights a week, and may even start playing four nights a week (but we better watch our nutrition in that case!). I'll talk more about that in future posts.</p>
<p> To finish up, what I'm reading right now. I'm slowly making my way through a book called <i> The Cryosphere </i>, whuch is about the basic geoscience of the planet's ice and snow. One gripe so far is the author defines a lot of descriptive terms for the various kinds of snow, ice and geologic features of the Cryosphere, <i> without </i> accompanying pictures or diagrams. This strikes me as an essential component in describing the nuanced differences between types of these features. </p> 
<h2>07/02/2021 Entry Two</h2> 
<p> As promised, list of resources to investigate complex systems. Because of my background, the resources will skew towards natural science and mathematical perspectives, so I think some resources will be difficult for those without a first year uni science background. Not all of them require that experience, however, and I definitely encourage people to listen to the New York Times <i> Ezra Klein Show</i> episode listed below. In no particular order, some resources:
<ul>
<li> Motivation for this topic was in the episode, <i> To understand this era, you need to think in systems</i> of the Ezra Klein show. There, Zeynep T<span>&uuml;</span>fek<span>&#231;</span>i and Ezra Klein discuss, among other things, systems thinking in the covid-19 pandemic. </li>
	<li> <i> Diversity and Complexity</i> by Scott E Page, investigating the role of diversity in complex systems. </li>
	<li><i> The Global Carbon Cycle </i> by David Archer, a primer in carbon cycling and geochemical cycles in the climate. </li> 	
	<li><i>Climate and Ecosystems</i> by David Schimel, exploring how climate and the biosphere influence eachother. </li>
	<li><i> Ant Encounters: Interaction Networks and Colony Behaviour</i> by Deborah M. Gordon, a book about...ants. </li>
	<li> <i> Normal accidents</i> by Charles Perrow. Recommended by Zeynep in the above conversation, this is a book about systems thinking and accidents in complex systems from a sociological perspective.</li>  
	<li><i> On Modeling and Interpreting the Economics of Catastrophic Climate Change</i>, an academic paper by Martin Weitzman about heavy tailed behaviour in the economics related to disasters (low prob, high impact events).</li>

	<li> <i> Stability and Complexity in Model Ecosystems</i> by Robert May. Concerns the stability of populations in complex ecosystems via mathematical models.</li>
</ul></p>
<p>There are many other resources one could consult. Many systems are 'complex', and a great way to learn about systems thinking would probably be to read widely in different fields, a suggestion Zeynep makes. A field that she suggests is ecology, where ecosystems, as we all would recognise, present systems with many interacting parts. I would personally suggest that climate systems and geochemical cycles are also good systems to study, where there are a lot of interacting components and feedback loops . Some additional resources are the various books in the Princeton Primers in Climate series, as well as various books on the Princeton uni press website about ecosystems. I likely don't have time to read all these resources any time soon, but at the same time, the wide range of topics makes for an interesting reading list to pick and choose from.
</p> 
<h2>06/02/2021 Entry One </h2>
<p> It's a bit late (22:10), but something interesting for the first post. I think an interesting topic to dig into would be complex systems and, relatedly, theory of extreme events (low prob, high impact events). Relating the two formally might be tough but they are related, and very interesting frameworks to interpret world events in. I'll collect some items for a scratch bibliography and share them in the next entry. Inspiration for this comes from a recent convo between Zeynep Tufekci and Ezra Klein, I'll put that in the bib to come too.</p>  
