---
layout: entry
title: "September 2024"
date: 2024-09-01
---

<h2> 01/09/2024</h2>

<p>Since April of this year, I've been living in Melbourne. It's only a temporary thing, as I'm covering for one of my meteorology teachers from back in 2021 while he is completing his PhD, and with the terms he taught in coming to an end so too my time in Melbourne and this job. It's been a really satisfying job, one that taught me to love learning about theory again. I think that's a mode of being---the curious thinker---which is at risk of being frozen or forgotten once one leaves school. Of course, the opposite can be true depending on the person and circumstances. Don't get me wrong, there are things that operational experience will teach you, just by seeing things happen because it's your job to watch, always watch. But don't kill the curious thinker either. Some may say it's platitudinous to say this, but I really do think a mix of both is the most enlightening.In any case, it's been refreshing to do work quite different to my substantive work in Darwin; work different in nature, schedule and sociality. The reflection of this, naturally, is a renewed passion returning to my substantive work with new ideas for how our office works, particularly how we train incoming staff with a focus on developing analysis and forecasting skills, as well as other interesting ideas...which I'll remain glib about. </p>

<p> But that's not the only thing I've been. I've had a great time re-connecting with old friends from university, making new friends at the office and striking up a few new hobbies. I've tried my hand at bouldering and yoga (both at teh same gym) and I'm surprisingly quite consistent in both, having gone to each multiple times per week in the past couple of months! I've also gone ice-skating a couple of times, something I want to continue to practice in Darwin, eventually becoming quite competent at. Another major thing I did this temporary time in Melbourne was finally finish The Wheel of Time book series. While it has its gendered issues, overall I'm so glad I started them 3 years ago, the rich world, captivating magic system and exciting story beats provided many a relaxing bed-time read. The fantasy book I've recently started is <em>The Shadow of What Was Lost</em>, the first book in the <i>Licanius Triology</i>. I was lead onto these books by quite literally looking for reddit threads "If I liked The Wheel of Time". Threading back to my festival of reunions with my friends in melbourne (pre-return to Darwin when the coronavirus lockdown happened), I've also started watching the second season of Rings of Power with two of my closest friends. But I think I'll stop here.</p>
